My mouse stands still on my computer’s screen, waiting for its next command. As I wiggle it around, I wonder what else is there to do today. My brain demands something to fend off the growing boredom: a game, a project, a chore, anything. A sudden thought pops into my head –-I should make a path-finding algorithm that uses motor encoders to create an imaginative field. The mouse clicks, my hands type, and the computer loads the page; the screen displays GitHub, a programming website where I can start this complex endeavor. As I click ‘My Profile’, and under ‘Projects’, the site shows me dozens of small boxes, each one a program from the past. Operating System, Mecanum Drive with Odometry, Java File System, applications, and more –-each one of these projects lies unfinished, rotting on the internet. There have been so many attempts at these complicated tasks, each leading to frustration; why should I make another?
Ambition. I was struggling with ambition. Wanting to do something useful or to achieve great things in life is something most decent humans strive for –but how do we do it? Each individual finds their answer, some work better than others. The solution many people find is to bury themselves in work –-to continue working until they get recognized for the almost infinite amount of tasks they try. One of my friends tries virtually every extracurricular activity: just so a good college can see him. Accomplishing complex and difficult tasks conveys our ambition, and shows that we did something with our life. It proves that we can be useful, we can do hard things. It sets us apart from the crowd, making us special –a feeling we all want.
But too much ambition isn’t good. World-renowned psychiatrist Neel Burton explains: “For just as mania can lead into depression, so ambition can lead into anguish and despair.” Ambition directly correlates to work –and lots of it. Sometimes it's complex projects, and sometimes it's just a large amount of activities, but it builds up. Piling work upon yourself leaves you in a constant cycle of hope and frustration; this cycle is detrimental to your mental health, leading to burnout, self-doubt, and emotional exhaustion. But is there a way to be ambitious and still achieve things?

